Queue is a data structure that holds requests, sometimes called messages.
A queue is similar in concept to waiting in line at a department store.
People join the line,
and wait their turn to checkout.
Similarly, messages join a queue and wait their turn to be processed.
Messages in a queue are commonly processed in order,
first-in, first-out or FIFO.
Let's say you have a money transfer app with
millions of users sending funds back and forth,
instead of making a user wait for
confirmation while money is being transferred through the platform,
you let them know their request was submitted and allow them to go about their day.
Behind the scenes, you place the money transfer request on a queue,
and process that requests when system resources are available.
Since the money transfer process along with
doing security checks could take a while to process.
The benefit of using a queue is that the user doesn't have to sit there waiting.
The use of a messaging queue will help improve performance and scalability.
The use of asynchronous processing where a user doesn't wait for a response,
improves the overall user experience.